We've got all of our information gathered now. We have taken the post
back with our information and fired off an event,
as well as configured our listener, but we haven't
written anything to the database yet.
If you've watched any of my other Spring videos here on
Pluralsight or just need a refresher,
the service layer is where you place your actual business logic,
and in our case,
we need to create that password token that verifies the person
updating the password is who we think they are in our system or
has access to the email address on file.
So we're going to create a PasswordService interface and implementation,
as well as the repository tier that will go through
and update our database as well.
Let's go ahead and finish this out,
and that will complete the first half of that demo for firing off the events
and gathering all of that information to update the password.
Where we last left off our PasswordListener,
we hadn't yet created the PasswordService,
so let's go ahead and complete that now.
We can hover over that and get the context‑sensitive help and we'll
create a field passwordService in PasswordListener,
and that is going to be of type PasswordService.
And we haven't created this yet, so if we save this,
it will also give us an error.
We want to Autowire this.
We can hover over that PasswordService object and do the same thing,
create an interface PasswordService.
And we want to choose the Destination package of service,
so we can type in service there, click OK.
And I'm going to go ahead and complete all of the methods that we need
inside this interface rather than going back and forth on this contract that
we're going to establish with our front end. I'm going to need three methods
inside of here, the createResetToken, a ResetToken class, and the Password.
We haven't created the ResetToken class yet,
so let's go ahead and start creating these objects inside of here.
We can import our Password object and ResetToken we need to create. The
ResetToken is the actual object that's going to contain all of the
information that's stored out to our database, and this is what we need to
do to verify they are who we think they should be.
So, let's go ahead and hover over that and create a class, ResetToken.
And the package for that should be the model, so
com.pluralsight.conference.model.
Let's click OK. And the ResetToken,
just like the VerificationToken, has a handful of fields inside of
here that we're going to need to implement it.
We want to have a String token, String email,
a Date that's the expiration date on here, and the username associated
with this, and we also have our expiration in here.
As I mentioned earlier,
you could create a parent token object that you move some of these up
into, because typically we're going to have a token and an expiration
date on any of those tokens that we have, but we'll just go ahead and
duplicate that in here for now.
Let's give ourselves some space underneath there, right‑click, and generate our
Getter and Setter. And we'll choose token through username.
We don't want to create a getter and setter for the static final int EXPIRATION.
Choose OK, and save this.
Now we have all the pieces we need for our ResetToken.
Let's go back to our PasswordService and make sure
that that's all implemented now, and everything looks good here.
The next thing we'll need to do is create our implementation of this.
And to do that,
I'm going to exit full screen and right‑click on our service package and say,
New, Java Class, PasswordServiceImpl, and this will implement the
PasswordService interface. And we'll get the error that we
haven't implemented those methods yet, so let's choose that. And
we'll stub these out for us.
The next step that we want to do is create that ResetToken.
We're going to need to do a couple of things inside of here.
I'm going to paste in the code that I have here just because
it's pretty simple and straightforward.
We're going to create a ResetToken that's going to take the token and
the email address and username that we have here, and then we'll call
our passwordRepository interface that we'll tie to the Impl class, and
we haven't created that yet either.
So the next step that we'll want to do is hover over
passwordRepository and select that we want to create the field
passwordRepository. And we don't have that one yet,
so we're going to create an instance of that interface.
And we want to Autowire that as well.
I'm going to save this, and now we can hover over the
interface itself and choose Create interface.
We want to do that in the repository package,
select OK. And similar to what we did with the service interface,
I'm going to copy the contract in here of the methods that we
want to implement, just so we don't have to keep going back and
forth as we flush this out.
And there are three methods inside of here that we'll need, a saveToken,
a findByToken, and an update.
Let's save this, and then, just like we did with the service,
let's go ahead and create an instance of this PasswordRepositoryImpl.
So I'm going to go up to our repository package, right‑click on it, and say
New, Java Class, and we'll call this the PasswordRepositoryImpl, and hit Enter,
and this is going to implement PasswordRepository.
It's going to give us an error, because we haven't implemented those
methods yet, so let's hover over that red line and say Implement
methods, and save that. Before we go any further,
we need to make sure that both our ServiceImpl and our
Repository are annotated correctly.
And so I want to go above our class declaration and say @Repository, and
save that, and open up our PasswordServiceImpl and do the same thing up
there, but we're going to annotate it with @Service.
Those stereotype annotations just define Spring components,
but it's good to identify the service tier as a service
and the repository tier as a repository.
Switching back to our PasswordRepository,
we can now finish out the SaveToken for creating that password ResetToken,
which we're going to do just like we had done
before by importing the data source.
So we'll say @Autowired and do private DataSource dataSource,
and that will be injected into our code.
And then we can create this SaveToken implementation.
This implementation is almost identical to what we
did with the account saveToken.
We're going to create an instance of JdbcTemplate.
That template is going to insert into reset_tokens,
we'll grab the email, address, the username, and the token,
and we'll calculate the expiry_date. And we haven't created that
method inside of our ResetToken yet. To do so,
we honestly can go to our VerificationToken and grab that
exact method, calculateExpiryDate, and just paste that
inside of our ResetToken. Again, this could be put in a parent class,
but for the sake of this example,
we'll just go ahead and copy that in there. We'll go to our
PasswordRepository, and everything is done inside of this, and honestly,
clear from our UI, to our controller, to our service, to our repository,
we'll need to switch over to our MySQL editor and create this table
really quick, but that's just a simple create statement on this table,
and let's look at that now.
The reset_tokens has one more column inside there than the
verification_tokens does. We have the email address,
the username,
the token, and the expiration date, and the reason for that is we want to
know what username we're going to combine with this email, so we've gone
ahead and stored both of those in there.
Let's highlight that, and execute on that SQL.
It's created that for us.
I am going to also execute a commit just to make sure
that it is saved inside of there.
And now we can go back and run our example from end‑to‑end. It should
have all the pieces we need inside of there now. If we switch back to
our application and start up our server,
it'll go ahead and deploy all of those changes we just made.
And now when we click on Add Registration,
we'll have our Forgot password link,
which we can put in our username of bryan, and you may have
something different for yours, and the email that we wanted to go
ahead and verify against. And, again, we didn't tie ours to
looking that up in the database.
That's a simple database call.
You can do that on your own.
We'll click Reset Password.
It'll fire off that event, and as we go to our application, we
can go ahead and see that it has fired off the email to have us
go through and reset that password.
If we click on this Reset password token, it's going to give us an
error now, because that's the second half of this demo.
So we've gone through and completed all of the pieces to have it go
against the database, and fire off the email, and gather all the
information. If we click on it, this is what we're going to finish for the second half of the demo.